---
sip: 345
title: Buyback and burn SNX on Base
network: Base
status: Draft
type: Governance
author: Cavalier (cavalier-eth)
---

## Simple Summary

50% of fees earned on Base (after fee share paid to integrators) will go to ETH LPs on Base, while the rest will go to SNX LPs on Ethereum and Optimism ("SNX LP Fees").

In an ideal world, SNX LP Fees would be distributed to each staker in the same form that fees are earned in. However, due to the limitations of cross-chain communication at this time, and the complexity of managing these operations across multiple networks, we will instead use the fees to buy SNX back from the market, and subsequently burn the purchased SNX.

The mechanism by which SNX will be purchased will be a Dutch auction, automated through the creation of a smart contract on Base.

## Abstract

After any share to integrators, use 50% of fees earned by ETH collateral, to buy and burn SNX via dutch auction.

## Motivation

Fees from the isolated Base deployment need to be allocated towards LPs on both Base and existing networks (Ethereum and Optimism). 

## Specification

### Overview

1. Deploy a dutch auction contract for SNX on Base
2. Configure any Markets on Base to send fees to a Rewards Distributor on Spartan Pool
3. Configure the Rewards Distributor on Spartan Pool to direct 50% of fees for ETH LPs to the dutch auction contract.
4. Burn purchased SNX

### Rationale
Buyback and burn SNX is the most elegant use of fees earned on Base, and tests the model of how satellite V3 deployments could operate.


### Technical Specification
TBC


## Test Cases
N/A

## Configurable Values (Via SCCP)

- `nonSNXFeeShare`: percentage of fees earned by non SNX LPs that is used to buyback SNX and burn

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.

